---
layout: post
mathjax: true
title: Singular Value Decomposition
tags: [Basic concept, CS]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---


# Singular value decomposition

In linear algebra, the singular value decomposition is a factorization of a real matrix. 

Suppose M is an m by n matrix whose entries come from the field $K$.
$M = U \Sigma V^*$

<!--more-->

- $U$ is an $m$ by $m$ unitary matrix over $K$
- $\Sigma$ is $m$ by $n$ matrix with non-negative real numbers on the diagonal
- $V$ is an n by n unitary matrix over $K$ and $V^*$ is the conjugate transpose of $V$

The diagonal entries of $\sigma_i$ of $
\Sigma$ are known as the **singular values** of $M$.
If we list the singular values in descending order, the diagonal matrix $\Sigma$ is uniquely determined by $M$.

**How can we compute a singular value decomposition?**

The singular value decomposition can be computed using the following observations:

- The left-singular vectors $(U)$ of $M$ are a set of orthonormal eigenvectors of $MM^∗$.
- The right-singular vectors $(V)$ of $M$ are a set of orthonormal eigenvectors of $M^∗M$.
- The non-negative singular values of $M$ (found on the diagonal entries of $\Sigma$) are the square roots of the non-negative eigenvalues of both $M^∗M$ and $MM^∗$.


**Some questions**

- Is it not true that $U$ and $V$ are unique? Then, why?
	- 아닐 수 있음, [wiki example](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singular_value_decomposition#Example) 에서 보면, singular value 가 0 인 영역은 단위행렬의 크기만 잘 맞추어주면 값이 뭐가되던 상관 없는 부분이 있어서 여러가지 존재할 수 있음. 
- What is a conjugate transpose of square matrix V?
  - **Q.** Definition
	- Taking the transpose and then taking the complex confugate of
      each entry
  - **Q.** Why is it important? For what it is used for?
- What is unitary matrix?
  - The square matrix $U$ is unitary if its conjugate transpose $U^\*$ is
    also its inverse. That is, $U^\*U = UU^\*=I$
- Why is SVD useful? Where is it used?
	- Dimension reduction [example](https://m.blog.naver.com/PostView.nhn?blogId=kmkim1222&logNo=10187459620&proxyReferer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F)
- What is the intuition of SVD?
- What is the relationship with eigendecompose?
	- 양의 정부호 행렬(positive definite matrix)은 eigendecompose 와 svd 가 같음
- What is orthgonal matrix?
	- A matrix $A$ is orthgonal if $AA^T=A^TA=I$
- 어떤 사람은 '직사각형 행렬의 대각화' 라고도 표현하는데 대각화된 행렬이 뭐가 그렇게 좋은건가?

Reference


- [wiki_Korean](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/특이값_분해)
- [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Singular_value_decomposition)

- SVD is another ways to diagonalize the matrix.
- It cab be applied to not only for squre matrix but also for all
  matrices.

A = U\SigmaV^*

